Add observable controller (#495)
kuzzleio/sdk-javascript: doc/7/essentials/realtime-synchronization/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: Realtime Synchronization
description: Realtime Synchronization of documents content
order: 310
---

# Realtime Synchronization

> The SDK offers the possibility to manipulate [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer) representing documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK offers the possibility to manipulate [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer) objects representing documents.
```

An observer is able to automatically synchronize itself in real-time with its linked document stored into Kuzzle.

An observer has the same properties as a document (`_id` and `_source`), so they are interchangeable within an application. 

::: warning
Observers are meant to be read-only.  
Use the [Document Controller](/sdk/js/7/controllers/document) if you need to mutate document content.
:::

> Internally, observers uses the [realtime.subscribe](/sdk/js/7/controllers/realtime/subscribe) method to receive [real-time notifications](/sdk/js/7/essentials/realtime-notifications) whenever a document changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, observers use the [realtime.subscribe](/sdk/js/7/controllers/realtime/subscribe) method to receive [real-time notifications](/sdk/js/7/essentials/realtime-notifications) whenever a document changes.
```

## Observer API

### ObserveController

> The only way to get [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer) is to use the [Observe Controller](/sdk/js/7/controllers/observe).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only way to get [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer) instances is to use the [Observe Controller](/sdk/js/7/controllers/observe).  
```

> It has 3 methods that are based on the document controller methods and they almost the same parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has 3 methods that are based on the document controller methods and they require similar parameters:
```

 - [observe.get](/sdk/js/7/controllers/observe/get): returns an [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer)
 - [observe.mGet](/sdk/js/7/controllers/observe/m-get): returns an array of [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer)
 - [observe.search](/sdk/js/7/controllers/observe/search): returns an [ObserverSearchResult](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer-search-result)

The resulting observers are directly synchronized with Kuzzle. (The [Observer.start](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer/start) has already been called)

::: warning 
Don't forget to call the [Observer.stop](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer/stop) when you don't need the observer anymore otherwise Kuzzle will continue to send real-time updates.
:::

### Observer

By default, [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer) instances returned by the Observe controller methods are already synchronized with Kuzzle.

When the linked document is modified in Kuzzle, the observer content (`_source` property) is automatically updated.

::: info
You can use the [Observer.stop](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer/stop) method to stop synchronization and [Observer.start](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer/start) to restart it. 
:::

> In addition to synchronizing its contents, an Observer is a [KuzzleEventEmitter](sdk/js/7/core-classe/kuzzle-event-emitter) emitting the following events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to synchronizing its contents, an Observer inhe'its from [KuzzleEventEmitter](sdk/js/7/core-classe/kuzzle-event-emitter), and emits the following events:
```

 - `change`: the linked document has been modified.
 - `delete`: the linked document has been deleted.
 - `error`: an error occurred during the subscription process.

See also: [Observer events](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer/introduction#events)

### ObserverSearchResult

An [ObserverSearchResult](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer-search-result) behaves like a [SearchResult](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/search-result) and contains a paginated list of [Observer](/sdk/js/7/core-classes/observer).  

> Each item in the `hits` arrayt is an observer linked to a document stored into Kuzzle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each item in the `hits` array is an observer linked to a document stored into Kuzzle.
```
